##Phase 4: Reflections

####Tools, Techniques, Conventions that Worked Well:

  We decided on a lot of tools, techniques, and conventions that helped with our development process including GitFlow, Github issues, Github API, Github Milestones, and API Blueprints, Dredd, and apiary.io. Firstly, by using GitFlow as our convention for using git, we managed to maintain clean code with minimum branches. We also creatively used the issue system on Github firstly track the tasks that were to be done, and secondly, to track the stage of Kanban that the tasks were currently on. This was a strong process that kept us well organized and always knowing what the rest of the team is working on. In addition, we used the Github API to gather information on each issue which we used to create graphs of the process of each task at the end of a phase in order to review the development process of the past phase. Using this technique, we were easily able to render graphs for easy analysis of our process. The last Github tool we used was the Milestones system in which we used to track the progress of each phase. This allowed us to visualize our achievements throughout the phase. For backend and frontend communication, we cleverly used API Blueprints to create documentation of the API of the backend and used apiary.io to have a nicely viewable documentation with a mock server to test with. Additionally, with API Blueprint documentation, we were able to develop the backend server and the client frontend at the same time without problems. Finally, API Blueprints in conjunction with Dredd, we were able to do automated testing of the backend server. With all those backend tools, developing for frontend was a lot more convenient and definitely worked well for us.
 
####Things that didn’t work well:

  We had a lot of things go well for us this project and a lot of it was due to good planning beforehand. However, the was one main problem that didn’t work well for us which was following the scrum process. This was because by following scrum, we had to meet frequently throughout the development process but as we have many other responsibilities and that many of us were taking some course at a different campus, it was very difficult for us to meet together and coordinate our busy schedules. Also, by assigning pull requests, we were bottlenecking our process because since we worked on different schedules, we may need to wait for another team member to pull before we could continue working.
 
####Ideal Development Process:

  A pseudo-Kanban process seemed to work the best for us since each team member could easily choose the tasks that they wanted to work and it was a very efficient method for us to split up tasks quickly and efficiently. Team members were free to pick tasks according to their expertise and time availability while also leaving appropriate tasks for the other members of the team. 
